+++
title: "Pre-processor Directives in C"
weight: 2
description: "Learn about pre-processor directives in C, including macro substitution directives and file inclusion directives. Explore examples of simple macros, argumented macros, nested macros, and file inclusion."
keywords: "C programming, pre-processor directives, macro substitution, file inclusion, simple macro, argumented macro, nested macro"
+++

### Pre-processor Directives
Preprocessor directives are the lines that are included in the code of programs preorded by a hash(#).The pre-processor examines the code before passing it to the compiler and resolves all the directives before any code is actually generated by regular statements.

  Pre processor often place at the beginning of the program, i.e. before the main() function.
### Types of  Pre-processor Directives
  Pre-processor Directives is classified as below:

1. Macro Substitution Directive
- Simple macro
- Argumented macro
- Nested Macro
2. File Inclusion Directive


1. Macro Substitution Directive
 Macros are essentially a way to represent a sequence of instructions or expressions by a single identifier.Macro substitution directive are those that uses macros which replaces the defined for is the program, Such directives accomplish the task under the direction of **#define** statement.

  It has the following **advantages**:
- Speed of the execution of the program is the major advantage.
- Reduces length of the program.
### Types of macro Directive
- Simple macro
- Argumented macro
- Nested Macro
**Simple macro**
They are generally used for declaring constants in C.

General form is:
```c
#define identifier value
```
Eg:
```c
#define N 5
```
### Example
```c
#include<stdio.h>
#define PI 3.14

int main() {
    float radius, area;

    printf("Enter the radius of the circle: ");
    scanf("%f", &radius);
    area = PI * radius * radius;
    printf("The area of the circle with radius %.2f is: %.2f\n", radius, area);

    return 0;
}
```
**Argumented macro**
 An argumented macro in C allows you to define more complex and flexible macros by using parameters. 
 
The general form is:
```
#define identifier (a1, a2.....) (expression)
```
```
#define AREA (r)(3.14*r*r)
```
### Example
```c
#include<stdio.h>
#define AREA(r)(3.14*r*r)
int main()
{
   float r,a;

printf("Enter radius\n");

scanf("%f",&r);

a=AREA(r);

printf("Area of circle = %f",a); 
return 0;
}
```
**Nested Macro**
 In  Nested Macro, one macro can be used in the definition of another macro. 
 ### Example
 ```c
#include<stdio.h>
#define N 10
#define LOOP for(i=0;i<N;i++)
int main()
{
    int i, arr[N],sum=0;
printf("enter ten numbers\n");
LOOP
{
	scanf("%d",&arr[i]);
    sum=sum+arr[i];
}
printf("Sum=%d\n",sum);
return 0;
}
```
2) **File inclusion directive**

The file inclusion directive are used to include user defined header file.File inclusion directive allows to incorporate the contents of one file into another.
The general syntax is
```c
#include"file name"
```
E.g:
```c
#include "myfile.c"
```
There are two ways of including header and they are:
1) Using angle bracket
 ```
#include <filename>
```
E.g:
#include <stdio.h>
2) Using double quotes
The general form is:
```c
#include "filename"
```
Eg:
```c
#include "myfile.c"
```
In this way, the preprocessor would look for myfile.c directory and in the standard libray. The path also can be mentioned.
